docs/README.md, before:

![BCML Logo](https://i.imgur.com/OiqKPx0.png)

# BCML: BOTW Cross-Platform Mod Loader

A mod merging and managing tool for _The Legend of Zelda: Breath of the Wild_

![BCML Banner](https://i.imgur.com/vmZanVl.png)

## Purpose

Why a mod loader for BOTW? Installing a mod is usually easy enough once you have a
homebrewed console or an emulator. Is there a need for a special tool?

Yes. As soon as you start trying to install multiple mods, you will find complications.
The BOTW game ROM is fundamentally structured for performance and storage use on a
family console, without any support for modification. As such, files like the
[resource size table](https://zeldamods.org/wiki/Resource_system) or
[TitleBG.pack](https://zeldamods.org/wiki/TitleBG.pack) will almost inevitably begin to
clash once you have more than a mod or two. Symptoms can include mods simply taking no
effect, odd bugs, actors that don't load, hanging on the load screen, or complete
crashing. BCML exists to resolve this problem. It identifies, isolates, and merges the
changes made by each mod into a single modpack that just works.

## Prerequisites

-   Windows 10+ (7-8 _might_ work but are not officially supported) or basically any modern Linux
    distribution
-   A legal, unpacked game dump of _The Legend of Zelda: Breath of the Wild_ for Switch
    (version 1.6.0) or Wii U (version 1.5.0)
-   [The latest x64 Visual C++ redistributable](https://support.microsoft.com/en-us/help/2977003/the-latest-supported-visual-c-downloads#section-2)
-   [The Edge WebView2 runtime](https://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/p/?LinkId=2124703) (optional but recommended)
-   Cemu (optional)

## Setup

There are two main ways to install BCML.

### PyPI

Install Python 3.7+ (**64 bit version**), making sure to add it to your PATH, and then
run `pip install bcml`. **Note that, because of certain dependencies, on Windows
Python 3.9+ is not supported. Python 3.10 is not supported on any platform.**

**Note for other Linux users**: Because of the ways different distros handle Python packaging,
it often works better to install BCML in some contained environment. There are a few options for
this. The easiest would be to use [`pipx`](https://github.com/pypa/pipx). You can install `pipx`
through pip, and then run `pipx install bcml`. In some cases you might need to also run `pipx
inject bcml pywebview[qt]`.

**Note for Linux white screen bug**: Try setting the environmental variable: `QTWEBENGINE_DISABLE_SANDBOX=1`.

Another option for Linux users is using a virtual environment ("venv"). To do so, you can run
something like this:

```sh
python -m venv bcml_env
source bcml_env/bin/activate # will activate the venv
pip install bcml
```

### Building from Source

Building from source requires, in addition to the general prerequisites:

-   Python 3.7+ 64 bit

    *(Note: 3.9+ will not work on Windows until `pythonnet` is updated.)*

-   Node.js v14

-   mkdocs and mkdocs-material

    Run `pip install mkdocs mkdocs-material` if not using `bootstrap.sh`

Steps to build from source:

1. Install Python requirements

    1. Open terminal to repo root folder
    2. Run `pip install -r requirements.txt`

2. Prepare the webpack bundle

    1. Open terminal to `bcml/assets`
    2. Run `npm install`
    3. Run `npm run build` (or `npm run test` to watch while editing)

3. Build the docs

    1. Open terminal to repo root folder
    2. Run `mkdocs build`

4. Install BCML with `python setup.py install` or run without installing with
   `python -m bcml`

Note that on Linux, you can simply run `bootstrap.sh` to perform these steps
automatically unless you would like more control.

## Usage and Troubleshooting

For information on how to use BCML, see the Help dialog in-app or read the documentation
[on the repo](https://github.com/NiceneNerd/BCML/tree/master/docs). For issues and
troubleshooting, please check the official
[Troubleshooting](https://github.com/NiceneNerd/BCML/wiki/Troubleshooting) page.

## Contributing

-   Issues: <https://github.com/NiceneNerd/BCML/issues>
-   Source: <https://github.com/NiceneNerd/BCML>

BOTW is an immensely complex game, and there are a number of new mergers that could be
written. If you find an aspect of the game that can be complicated by mod conflicts, but
BCML doesn't yet handle it, feel free to try writing a merger for it and submitting a
PR.

Python and JSX code for BCML is subject to formatting standards. Python should be
formatted with Black. JSX should be formatted with Prettier, using the following
settings:

```json
{
    "prettier.arrowParens": "avoid",
    "prettier.jsxBracketSameLine": true,
    "prettier.printWidth": 88,
    "prettier.tabWidth": 4,
    "prettier.trailingComma": "none"
}
```

## License

This software is licensed under the terms of the GNU General Public License, version 3
or later. The source is publicly available on
[GitHub](https://github.com/NiceneNerd/BCML).

This software includes the 7-Zip console application `7z.exe` and the library `7z.dll`,
which are licensed under the GNU Lesser General Public License. The source code for this
application is available for free at <https://www.7-zip.org/download.html>.

This software includes a fork of the console application `msyt.exe` by Kyle Clemens,
copyrighted 2018 under the MIT License. The source code for this application is
available for free at <https://github.com/NiceneNerd/msyt/tree/bcml>.

This software includes part of a modified copy of the `pywebview` Python package,
copyright 2020 Roman Sirokov under the BSD-3-Clause License. The source code for the
original library is available for free at <https://github.com/r0x0r/pywebview>.

Commit message:

Rust extensions (#337)
* Initial Rust extension commit
* Add settings in Rust
* Map and pack mergers
* Rebase Rust branch
  Updates Rust extension branch to 3.8.0
* Tidying up
* Fix map and text stuff
* Initial add `pyproject.toml`
* More stuff for `pyproject.toml`
* Update `pyproject.toml`
* Restore `setup.py`
* Fix readme content type
* Export in parallel w/ symlinks
* Version bump
* Update pythonnet for 3.9 Windows
* Fix mod link order
* New hardlink/export setup
* Finish linking updates
* Version bump
* Actor info Rust merger
* Fix pack stuff
* Cast WindowsPath to str for Rust extension parser
* Update readme
* Update workflows

Co-authored-by: Torphedo <ahiatt.cosgrove@gmail.com>
Co-authored-by: Caleb Smith <caleb@myrvmail.com>
Co-authored-by: Caleb Smith <email@calebdixonsmith.top>
Co-authored-by: Marcus Smith <80713508+ArchLeaders@users.noreply.github.com>

docs/README.md, after:

![BCML Logo](https://i.imgur.com/OiqKPx0.png)

# BCML: BOTW Cross-Platform Mod Loader

A mod merging and managing tool for _The Legend of Zelda: Breath of the Wild_

![BCML Banner](https://i.imgur.com/vmZanVl.png)

## Purpose

Why a mod loader for BOTW? Installing a mod is usually easy enough once you have a
homebrewed console or an emulator. Is there a need for a special tool?

Yes. As soon as you start trying to install multiple mods, you will find complications.
The BOTW game ROM is fundamentally structured for performance and storage use on a
family console, without any support for modification. As such, files like the
[resource size table](https://zeldamods.org/wiki/Resource_system) or
[TitleBG.pack](https://zeldamods.org/wiki/TitleBG.pack) will almost inevitably begin to
clash once you have more than a mod or two. Symptoms can include mods simply taking no
effect, odd bugs, actors that don't load, hanging on the load screen, or complete
crashing. BCML exists to resolve this problem. It identifies, isolates, and merges the
changes made by each mod into a single modpack that just works.

## Prerequisites

-   Windows 10+ (7-8 _might_ work but are not officially supported) or basically any modern Linux
    distribution
-   A legal, unpacked game dump of _The Legend of Zelda: Breath of the Wild_ for Switch
    (version 1.6.0) or Wii U (version 1.5.0)
-   [The latest x64 Visual C++ redistributable](https://support.microsoft.com/en-us/help/2977003/the-latest-supported-visual-c-downloads#section-2)
-   Cemu (optional)

## Setup

There are two main ways to install BCML.

### PyPI

Install Python 3.7 - 3.9 (**64 bit version**), making sure to add it to your PATH, and then
run `pip install bcml`.

**Note for Linux users**: Because of the ways different distros handle Python packaging,
it often works better to install BCML in some contained environment. There are a few options for
this. The easiest would be to use [`pipx`](https://github.com/pypa/pipx). You can install `pipx`
through pip, and then run `pipx install bcml`. In some cases you might need to also run `pipx
inject bcml pywebview[qt]`.

**Note for Linux white screen bug**: Try setting the environmental variable: `QTWEBENGINE_DISABLE_SANDBOX=1`.

Another option for Linux users is using a virtual environment ("venv"). To do so, you can run
something like this:

```sh
python -m venv bcml_env
source bcml_env/bin/activate # will activate the venv
pip install bcml
```

### Building from Source

Building from source requires, in addition to the general prerequisites:

-   Python 3.7 - 3.9 64 bit

-   Rust 1.60+ (nightly)

-   Node.js v14+

-   mkdocs and mkdocs-material

    Run `pip install mkdocs mkdocs-material` in venv if not using `bootstrap.sh`

Steps to build from source:

1. Create and activate a Python virtual environment (venv)

    1. Open terminal to repo root folder
    2. `python -m venv venv`
    3. Activate the venv (usually `venv/bin/activate` on Linux or `venv\Scripts\activate.ps1` on Windows)

2. Install Python requirements

    1. Open terminal to repo root folder
    2. Run `pip install -r requirements.txt`
    3. Also install Maturin: `pip install maturin`

3. Build Rust extension module

    1. Open terminal to repo root folder
    2. Run `maturin develop` (or `maturin develop --release` for performance)

4. Prepare the webpack bundle

    1. Open terminal to `bcml/assets`
    2. Run `npm install`
    3. Run `npm run build` (or `npm run test` to watch while editing)

5. Build the docs

    1. Open terminal to repo root folder
    2. Run `mkdocs build`

6. Create an installable wheel with `maturin build` or run without installing with
   `python -m bcml`

Note that on Linux, you can simply run `bootstrap.sh` to perform these steps
automatically unless you would like more control.

## Usage and Troubleshooting

For information on how to use BCML, see the Help dialog in-app or read the documentation
[on the repo](https://github.com/NiceneNerd/BCML/tree/master/docs). For issues and
troubleshooting, please check the official
[Troubleshooting](https://github.com/NiceneNerd/BCML/wiki/Troubleshooting) page.

## Contributing

-   Issues: <https://github.com/NiceneNerd/BCML/issues>
-   Source: <https://github.com/NiceneNerd/BCML>

BOTW is an immensely complex game, and there are a number of new mergers that could be
written. If you find an aspect of the game that can be complicated by mod conflicts, but
BCML doesn't yet handle it, feel free to try writing a merger for it and submitting a
PR.

Python and JSX code for BCML is subject to formatting standards. Python should be
formatted with Black. JSX should be formatted with Prettier, using the following
settings:

```json
{
    "prettier.arrowParens": "avoid",
    "prettier.jsxBracketSameLine": true,
    "prettier.printWidth": 88,
    "prettier.tabWidth": 4,
    "prettier.trailingComma": "none"
}
```

## License

This software is licensed under the terms of the GNU General Public License, version 3
or later. The source is publicly available on
[GitHub](https://github.com/NiceneNerd/BCML).

This software includes the 7-Zip console application `7z.exe` and the library `7z.dll`,
which are licensed under the GNU Lesser General Public License. The source code for this
application is available for free at <https://www.7-zip.org/download.html>.

This software includes part of a modified copy of the `pywebview` Python package,
copyright 2020 Roman Sirokov under the BSD-3-Clause License. The source code for the
original library is available for free at <https://github.com/r0x0r/pywebview>.
