docs/trouble.md, before:

# Troubleshooting

**_Any time you have any problem with one or more mods in-game after installing them
through BCML, the first thing you should try is using the Remerge button._**

There are a lot of things that can go wrong trying to merge and manage mods for BOTW.
Check here for some basic help for common problems.

## Problems in BCML

### Setup

#### BCML is installed, how do I open it?

Run `bcml` from the command line. You can also create a shortcut on your desktop or in
the Start Menu. On Windows, point it to `bcml.exe` in the Scripts folder where you
installed Python.

#### How do I get an unpacked game dump to use with BCML?

Follow the instructions from <a href="https://zeldamods.org/wiki/Help:Dumping_games" target="_blank">this tutorial</a>.

#### How do I setup my game folders in BCML?

Here are the rules for the folders you need to set in BCML.

(*Note*: If you use Cemu, BCML should automatically find your game folders when you
select the Cemu folder. If it doesn't, you can find them by right-clicking the game in
Cemu and clicking the buttons to open the game, update, and DLC folders. These will
_not_ be the exact folders you need but will be very close to them; read on to find out
exactly what you'll need to do from there.)

##### Cemu

(Optional) Must be the folder which directly contains `Cemu.exe` and `settings.xml`. For
some Cemu installations, this may be inside a folder named `BIN`.

##### Base Game

_(Required)_ Must be the root folder for the BOTW ROM, excluding the executable or meta.
For Wii U/Cemu, this may be separate from Cemu's MLC storage, or, if it is, it will use
the title ID that ends in `0`. You must pass BCML the `content` folder directly, e.g.
`C:\Game Dumps\The Legend of Zelda Breath of the Wild [ALZE]\content`.

For Switch, this will be the `romfs` folder under the base game title ID, e.g.
`C:\Game Dumps\BOTW\01007EF00011E000\romfs`.

You can tell this folder is set correctly if it contains the file
`Pack/Dungeon000.pack`.

##### Update

_(Required: Wii U)_ Must be the root content folder for BOTW's update files, version
1.5.0 for Wii U or 1.6.0 for Switch. For Cemu users, this should ordinarily be inside
Cemu's MLC storage. For Cemu/Wii U, the first half of the title ID will end in the
letter E. Example: `C:\Cemu\mlc01\usr\title\0005000E\101C9400\content`

*Switch users should not need an update folder, because dumping will ordinarily merge the
base game and update files.*

You can tell this folder is set correctly if it contains approximately 7000 files in the
folder `Actor/Pack`.

##### DLC

_(Optional)_ Must be the folder containing the latest paid DLC files for BOTW. For Cemu
users, this should ordinarily be inside Cemu's MLC storage. For Cemu/Wii U, the first
half of the title ID will end in the letter C. Example (_make sure to include the
`0010`_): `C:\Cemu\mlc01\usr\title\0005000E\101C9400\content\0010`

For Switch, this will be the `romfs` folder under the supported DLC title ID, e.g.
`C:\Game Dumps\BOTW\01007EF00011F001\romfs`

You can tell this folder is set correctly if it contains `Pack/AocMainField.pack`.

### Installing Mods

#### No files were extracted.

This usually means the mod download is corrupt.

#### FileNotFoundError: No `rules.txt` or `info.json` was found in mod

This one is as it says. BCML didn't find a recongized meta file in the mod you picked.
BCML only supports graphic pack mods and BNPs (Switch: BNPs only). Other formats will
need to be converted first.

#### Progress is stuck on "One Sec" forever

This happens when somehow your system fails to check and load a mod's metadata for
custom install options. I have never been able to reproduce this and can't say why
it happens, except in some cases it can be caused by Unicode characters in the 7-Zip
path.

#### FileNotFoundError: File `X` not found in game dump

In most cases, this indicates that, despite BCML's attempts to check your folder
settings to begin with, somehow the game dump, update data, or DLC folder you provided
to BCML are incorrect. See the [previous section](#why-wont-bcml-accept-my-folders) for
help with folders. In rare cases it may relate to a mod that adds new files in a way or
place that BCML does not anticipate.

#### AAMP file `X` could not be merged.

Usually this means one of your mods has an outdated or broken file, often a `.bshop` file.
Contact the mod creator for help. This _also_ applies to the error "Shop file `X` appears
to be missing a key."

#### There was an error installing MOD. It processed successfully, but could not be added to your BCML mods

If the full text of the error includes anything about XML, you probably either (1) have
an old version of Cemu or (2) have a corrupt Cemu settings file. Make sure you have at
least Cemu 1.15, and if you still have issues, try deleting `settings.xml` from the Cemu
folder.

#### ValueError: Invalid version: 1-wiiu (expected 1-3)

The mod you are trying to install contains a [BYML](https://zeldamods.org/wiki/BYML)
file (usually `ActorInfo.product.sbyml` ) that has been corrupted by an outdated BYML
tool. The only solution to this is to _contact the mod creator for help_ or to repair
the file manually.

### Creating BNPs

#### No modified files were found. This means the mod is probably not in a supported format.

If you haven't already looked, check the [BNP help page](bnp.md) for help with the
correct folder structure for a BNP mod. If it still doesn't work, make sure to check the
casing of the folder names, as they are in fact case-sensitive (e.g. `content/Actor`
works but `Content/actor` does not).

*Note that you will get this error if the foler structure is correct but you select the
wrong folder when making the BNP.* For example, Switch users often rightly create a
`01007EF00011E000/romfs` folder for their mod but then select the `romfs` folder when
they should select the root folder that *contains* the title ID folder.

### Usage Problems

#### BCML takes me back to the setup wizard each time.

Your settings, probably the game folders, are incorrect. They need to be fixed first.

#### The "Launch Game" button doesn't work.

Usually, this happens if Cemu is set to run as administrator but BCML is not. To correct
this, either turn off the administrator setting for Cemu (recommended, as it's actually
useless in _most_ cases) or run BCML as administrator.

## Problems In Game

**_Any time you have any problem with one or more mods in-game after installing them
through BCML, the first thing you should try is using the Remerge button._**

### BOTW crashes _immediately_ when the game starts to load

There are a few possible causes:

1. You have mods installed outside of BCML that conflict with the BCML pack. **Running
   BCML alongside mods installed with other methods is not supported.**
2. You still have the master graphic pack for BCML 2.8 enabled in Cemu after upgrading
   (under `{BCML: DON'T TOUCH}`).
3. Your load order is backwards or otherwise incorrect.
4. Your game language in BCML does not match the region and language you use in BOTW.
5. Your game directory settings in BCML are set incorrectly.
6. There is something wrong with one of your mods itself.
7. One or more of the mods you are using are incompatible with the others in game-breaking
   ways even after merging.
8. Your game dump is corrupt.

### I've installed my mods in BCML, but they don't take effect in Cemu

There are four common causes for this:

1. You accidentally turned on the "Use BCML without a Cemu installation" setting.
2. The BCML graphic pack is not enabled in Cemu. BCML attempts to enable it automatically,
   but permissions issues can prevent this sometimes. Enable the pack in the Cemu graphic
   pack menu at `The Legend of Zelda: Breath of the Wild/Mods/BCML`. In some rare cases,
   you may need to restart both BCML and Cemu and remerge for this to work.
3. Your Cemu folder is in OneDrive, which doesn't cooperate for some reason.
4. You have a weird problem involving hard links and filesystem permissions, in which
   turn on the "Disable hard links for master mod" setting.

### I installed the Linkle mod, and it kind of works, but Linkle looks mixed with Link

This is usually a problem of mod priority. Try setting the Linkle mod to a higher
priority than any mods that alter armour stats or other mods that affect `TitleBG.pack`.
If you have already done so, try remerging. If it still doesn't work, it could be a more
complicated problem with your mod configuration; consider clearing your mods and
starting fresh.

### New items added by my mod(s) have no names or descriptions

Check to make sure your region and language settings in BCML match your game, and then
remerge.

Commit message:

trouble.md: Add language troubleshooting tip

docs/trouble.md, after:

# Troubleshooting

**_Any time you have any problem with one or more mods in-game after installing them
through BCML, the first thing you should try is using the Remerge button._**

There are a lot of things that can go wrong trying to merge and manage mods for BOTW.
Check here for some basic help for common problems.

## Problems in BCML

### Setup

#### BCML is installed, how do I open it?

Run `bcml` from the command line. You can also create a shortcut on your desktop or in
the Start Menu. On Windows, point it to `bcml.exe` in the Scripts folder where you
installed Python.

#### How do I get an unpacked game dump to use with BCML?

Follow the instructions from <a href="https://zeldamods.org/wiki/Help:Dumping_games" target="_blank">this tutorial</a>.

#### How do I setup my game folders in BCML?

Here are the rules for the folders you need to set in BCML.

(*Note*: If you use Cemu, BCML should automatically find your game folders when you
select the Cemu folder. If it doesn't, you can find them by right-clicking the game in
Cemu and clicking the buttons to open the game, update, and DLC folders. These will
_not_ be the exact folders you need but will be very close to them; read on to find out
exactly what you'll need to do from there.)

##### Cemu

(Optional) Must be the folder which directly contains `Cemu.exe` and `settings.xml`. For
some Cemu installations, this may be inside a folder named `BIN`.

##### Base Game

_(Required)_ Must be the root folder for the BOTW ROM, excluding the executable or meta.
For Wii U/Cemu, this may be separate from Cemu's MLC storage, or, if it is, it will use
the title ID that ends in `0`. You must pass BCML the `content` folder directly, e.g.
`C:\Game Dumps\The Legend of Zelda Breath of the Wild [ALZE]\content`.

For Switch, this will be the `romfs` folder under the base game title ID, e.g.
`C:\Game Dumps\BOTW\01007EF00011E000\romfs`.

You can tell this folder is set correctly if it contains the file
`Pack/Dungeon000.pack`.

##### Update

_(Required: Wii U)_ Must be the root content folder for BOTW's update files, version
1.5.0 for Wii U or 1.6.0 for Switch. For Cemu users, this should ordinarily be inside
Cemu's MLC storage. For Cemu/Wii U, the first half of the title ID will end in the
letter E. Example: `C:\Cemu\mlc01\usr\title\0005000E\101C9400\content`

*Switch users should not need an update folder, because dumping will ordinarily merge the
base game and update files.*

You can tell this folder is set correctly if it contains approximately 7000 files in the
folder `Actor/Pack`.

##### DLC

_(Optional)_ Must be the folder containing the latest paid DLC files for BOTW. For Cemu
users, this should ordinarily be inside Cemu's MLC storage. For Cemu/Wii U, the first
half of the title ID will end in the letter C. Example (_make sure to include the
`0010`_): `C:\Cemu\mlc01\usr\title\0005000E\101C9400\content\0010`

For Switch, this will be the `romfs` folder under the supported DLC title ID, e.g.
`C:\Game Dumps\BOTW\01007EF00011F001\romfs`

You can tell this folder is set correctly if it contains `Pack/AocMainField.pack`.

#### Why are there no language options to choose from?

BCML populates the language options when you enter the correct Base Game folder. If
you have no language options, check to make sure your game folder is set correctly
and the entry line has a green checkmark.

If you still have no language options, click inside the Base Game entry line, press 
Ctrl+A to select the entire line, then press Ctrl+X and Ctrl+V to delete/re-enter the
line and force another check for the languages.

### Installing Mods

#### No files were extracted.

This usually means the mod download is corrupt.

#### FileNotFoundError: No `rules.txt` or `info.json` was found in mod

This one is as it says. BCML didn't find a recongized meta file in the mod you picked.
BCML only supports graphic pack mods and BNPs (Switch: BNPs only). Other formats will
need to be converted first.

#### Progress is stuck on "One Sec" forever

This happens when somehow your system fails to check and load a mod's metadata for
custom install options. I have never been able to reproduce this and can't say why
it happens, except in some cases it can be caused by Unicode characters in the 7-Zip
path.

#### FileNotFoundError: File `X` not found in game dump

In most cases, this indicates that, despite BCML's attempts to check your folder
settings to begin with, somehow the game dump, update data, or DLC folder you provided
to BCML are incorrect. See the [previous section](#why-wont-bcml-accept-my-folders) for
help with folders. In rare cases it may relate to a mod that adds new files in a way or
place that BCML does not anticipate.

#### AAMP file `X` could not be merged.

Usually this means one of your mods has an outdated or broken file, often a `.bshop` file.
Contact the mod creator for help. This _also_ applies to the error "Shop file `X` appears
to be missing a key."

#### There was an error installing MOD. It processed successfully, but could not be added to your BCML mods

If the full text of the error includes anything about XML, you probably either (1) have
an old version of Cemu or (2) have a corrupt Cemu settings file. Make sure you have at
least Cemu 1.15, and if you still have issues, try deleting `settings.xml` from the Cemu
folder.

#### ValueError: Invalid version: 1-wiiu (expected 1-3)

The mod you are trying to install contains a [BYML](https://zeldamods.org/wiki/BYML)
file (usually `ActorInfo.product.sbyml` ) that has been corrupted by an outdated BYML
tool. The only solution to this is to _contact the mod creator for help_ or to repair
the file manually.

### Creating BNPs

#### No modified files were found. This means the mod is probably not in a supported format.

If you haven't already looked, check the [BNP help page](bnp.md) for help with the
correct folder structure for a BNP mod. If it still doesn't work, make sure to check the
casing of the folder names, as they are in fact case-sensitive (e.g. `content/Actor`
works but `Content/actor` does not).

*Note that you will get this error if the foler structure is correct but you select the
wrong folder when making the BNP.* For example, Switch users often rightly create a
`01007EF00011E000/romfs` folder for their mod but then select the `romfs` folder when
they should select the root folder that *contains* the title ID folder.

### Usage Problems

#### BCML takes me back to the setup wizard each time.

Your settings, probably the game folders, are incorrect. They need to be fixed first.

#### The "Launch Game" button doesn't work.

Usually, this happens if Cemu is set to run as administrator but BCML is not. To correct
this, either turn off the administrator setting for Cemu (recommended, as it's actually
useless in _most_ cases) or run BCML as administrator.

## Problems In Game

**_Any time you have any problem with one or more mods in-game after installing them
through BCML, the first thing you should try is using the Remerge button._**

### BOTW crashes _immediately_ when the game starts to load

There are a few possible causes:

1. You have mods installed outside of BCML that conflict with the BCML pack. **Running
   BCML alongside mods installed with other methods is not supported.**
2. You still have the master graphic pack for BCML 2.8 enabled in Cemu after upgrading
   (under `{BCML: DON'T TOUCH}`).
3. Your load order is backwards or otherwise incorrect.
4. Your game language in BCML does not match the region and language you use in BOTW.
5. Your game directory settings in BCML are set incorrectly.
6. There is something wrong with one of your mods itself.
7. One or more of the mods you are using are incompatible with the others in game-breaking
   ways even after merging.
8. Your game dump is corrupt.

### I've installed my mods in BCML, but they don't take effect in Cemu

There are four common causes for this:

1. You accidentally turned on the "Use BCML without a Cemu installation" setting.
2. The BCML graphic pack is not enabled in Cemu. BCML attempts to enable it automatically,
   but permissions issues can prevent this sometimes. Enable the pack in the Cemu graphic
   pack menu at `The Legend of Zelda: Breath of the Wild/Mods/BCML`. In some rare cases,
   you may need to restart both BCML and Cemu and remerge for this to work.
3. Your Cemu folder is in OneDrive, which doesn't cooperate for some reason.
4. You have a weird problem involving hard links and filesystem permissions, in which
   turn on the "Disable hard links for master mod" setting.

### I installed the Linkle mod, and it kind of works, but Linkle looks mixed with Link

This is usually a problem of mod priority. Try setting the Linkle mod to a higher
priority than any mods that alter armour stats or other mods that affect `TitleBG.pack`.
If you have already done so, try remerging. If it still doesn't work, it could be a more
complicated problem with your mod configuration; consider clearing your mods and
starting fresh.

### New items added by my mod(s) have no names or descriptions

Check to make sure your region and language settings in BCML match your game, and then
remerge.
